# Design-and-FPGA-implementation-of-8-bit-Vedic-Multiplier-using-Verilog-HDL
Introduction:
The word “Vedic” is derived from the word “Veda” which means the store-house of all knowledge. Vedic Mathematics is an ancient system of mathematics existed in India. In this eminent approach, methods of basic arithmetic are simple, powerful and logical. Another advantage is its regularity. Because of these advantages, Vedic Mathematics has become an important topic for research. The technique use in Vedic Mathematics is mainly based on sixteen Sutras. Vedic mathematics was reconstructed from the ancient Indian scriptures (Vedas) by Swami Bharati Krishna Tirthaji Maharaja (1884-1960) after his eight years of research on Vedas. Vedic mathematics is mainly based on sixteen principles or word-formulae which are termed as sutras. This is a very interesting field and presents some effective algorithms which can be applied to various branches of engineering such as computing and digital signal processing. Integrating multiplication with Vedic Mathematics techniques would result in the saving of computational time.
Multipliers play an essential part in today’s digital signal processing and various other applications. With advances in technology, many scholars have tried and are trying to design multipliers which compromise either of the following design targets - high speed, low power consumption, symmetry of layout and less area. In this paper we have made the use Vedic sutra in designing high speed multiplier we have proposed various architecture for designing Vedic multiplier so as to reduce delay as minimum as possible using  urdhva-triyagbhyam.
I. URDHVA - TRIYAGBHYAM  SUTRA:
The word “Urdhva Tiryakbhyam” is Vedic sutra which means vertical and crosswise multiplication. This multiplication formula is equally applicable to all cases of algorithm for N bit numbers. Conventionally this sutra is used for the multiplication of two numbers in decimal number system. The same concept can be applicable to binary number system. Advantage of using this type of multiplier is that as the number of bits increases, delay and area increases very slowly as compared to other conventional multipliers.
